---
  title: Cycle 2310 (05 Oct)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

## Revision A

  - DCL now available at NZDN.

### Auckland

  - The following procedures have been added: `DOVON 1Q`.
  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `AVDAT 2Q` and `ELSAB 2P`.
    - `AVDAT 2Q`: `BOVRU` transition removed.
    - `ELSAB 2P`: `HOOKS` and `KAWAU` transitons added.

### Christchurch

  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `MESIX 2D`, `BLUNT 2D`, `HODDE 3D`, `BELEE 6G`, `MOLGI 5G`, `MESIX 4G`. 
  - The following procedures have been removed: `REPAP 2G`, `IGEGA 4G`, `AVOCA 5G`, `DOPKI 4G`, `ELDAK 4G`, `LADIS 3G`, `KIDAL 4G`, `PEHRR 3G` and `PEAKS 4G`.
  - The following procedures have been added: `AKAMO 1G`, `BLUNT 1G`, `HODDE 1G` and `LALAP 1G`.

!!! note "Consolidation of Procedures"
    Most of these changes are a consolidation of RWY 29 procedures - decreasing from 12 procedures down to seven. These procedures now route via transitions to core feeder fixes - where is the waypoint portion of the procedure name is the designated feeder fix.

    The prcocedures that have a `D` procedure suffix are for RWY 11, and have had their sector MSAs revised.

### Invercargill

  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `AKPIN 4A` and `AKPIN 5B`.
    - `AKPIN` to `BIDKU` leg MSA raised to `A030`.

### Palmerston North

  - Freight Apron removed.

### Wellington

  - Inbound procedural hold added to `MEEDA`.

### Westport
  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `AKSEM 2E`, `ESDAK 2E`, `KAKET 2E`, `AKSEM 2F` and `ESDAK 2F`.
    - All procedures have had their leg MSAs reviwed.
  - Both RNP approaches have had their procedural waypoints replaced by a 5LNC. `WS404` and `WS411` replaced by `ISPEB` and `UDIRI` respectively.

### Whakatane
  - The following procedures have had their designations changed:
    - `KEEPA 2A` becomes `KEEPA 3E`.
    - `KEEPA 2B` becomes `KEEPS 3F`.


  

## Dataset Updates

The following errors have been fixed:

  - Auckland: WPT `LURLU` added to RNP Y RWY 23L, which had been missed previously.

