---
title: WorldFlight (30 Oct)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

This release contains many changes related to WorldFlight 2025, mainly affecting `NZZO-TSN_FSS` and the Antarctic region. These changes will be removed or iterated upon after the event.

## Data Changes

- Updated the dataset to use the latest aeronautical data for the Pacific region.
- Amendment to Tahiti procedures to allow the Dataset to be exported.

## Antarctica Changes

- Implementation of `NZWD_APP`, `NZFX_TWR`, `NZFX_GND` and `NZFX_DEL`.
- Implementation of `NZFX_ATIS`, `NZCM_ATIS` both with a frequency of `129.900`.
- Implementaion of `NZWD_ATIS` with a frequency of `122.600`.
- Addition of `NZWD_APP` to the TMA Map.
- Various ADS-B receivers have been implemented to ensure seamless surveillance coverage along airways `A338` and `P640`.

!!! note "Use of `NZFX_ATIS` and `NZWD_ATIS`"

    The NZFX and NZWD METARs are very intermittent, as they only provide data when the aerodromes are in use in the real-world. With WordFlight operating at a time where there is unlikely to be activity on the ice, we have elected to use NZCM as the ATIS source. NZCM provides a much more reliable source of weather data.

    The NZFX and NZCM ATISs are defined using the same frequency as a technical workaround. Only the NZCM ATIS should be used.

## Tasman Changes

`NZZO-TSN_FSS` will operate as a surveillance sector for WorldFlight, with many of these changes enabling that function.

- Various ADS-B receivers have been implemented to ensure seamless surveillance coverage throughout the sector.
- Separation standards have been defined for the `NZZO-TSN_FSS` sector.
- Additional VHF transceivers have been defined, and the HF aliasing for `NZZO-TSN_FSS` has been removed. The primary frequency is now `129.500`.

## External Changes

- VATSIM TRACON Dataset: `NZWD_APP` has been added.
- VATSIM VatSPY Dataset: `NZZO-TSN_FSS` has been added.
