---
  title: Cycle 2406 (13 Jun)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

This cycle is a major release, with a significant amount of changes. A lot of these changes come from the renaming of waypoints, under direction from ICAO.

Additionally, we now have Standard Route Clearance maps for each aerodrome, as well as updated coastline maps, now featuring inland bodies of water.

## SOP Changes

### BAY Sector

References to waypoint `NOBAR` and associated procedures amended to now reference waypoint `DODKU`.


### NZCH: Christchurch

Amendment to the in-progress CH TMA SOPs for the introduction of the `BELEE #J` and `BELEE #K` STARs, and when to use them over the `BELEE #A` and `BELEE #B` STARs.

----

## Data Changes

### Aerodrome

#### NZAA: Auckland

- The following waypoints have been renamed:
    - `NOBAR` is now `DODKU`
    - `SELKA` is now `ELPAK`
- The following STARs have been amended and re-sequenced: `EXOPI 2B`, `BASIV 9B`, `EXOPI 8D`, `RIKNI 2N`, `EXOPI 9A`, `RAXIN 3Q`, `MEMOR 3P`.
    - Waypoint `SELKA` replaced by `ELPAK`.
- The following STARs have been renamed, after waypoint `NOBAR` replaced by `DODKU`:
    - RWY 23L: `NOBAR 6A` and `1E` replaced by `DODKU 1A` and `1E` repectively. 
    - RWY 05R: `NOBAR 9B` and `9D` replaced by `DODKU 1B` and `1D` respectively.

#### NZCH: Christchurch

- The following waypoints have been renamed:
    - `PEAKS` is now `IPRAK`
    - `BLUNT` is now `UPVES`
    - `CHARR` is now `UGEKI`
- All STARs anchored on the following waypoints have been removed: `PEAKS`, `IGEGA`, `KIDAL`, `LADIS`, `PEHRR`, `REPAP`, `DOPKI`, `ELDAK`.

##### RWY 02

- The following STARs have been added: 
    - `HODDE 1A`, `BELEE 1J`, `AKAMO 1A`, `GUKAM 1A`, `ELDAK 1C`.
    - `AVNOP 1A`, `AVNOP 1E`: Consolidation of the `PEAKS`, `IGEGA` and `KIDAL` STARs.
- The following STARs have been amended and re-sequenced: 
    - `BELEE 6A`, `BELEE 4E`: New transition: `OSOLO`. 

##### RWY 20

- The following STARs have been added:
    - `BELEE 1K`, `IDPER 1B`, `IDPER 1F`, `VEPLO 1B`, `VEPLO 1F`, `LALAP 1B`.
    - `UPVES 1B`: Consolidation of the `PEAKS`, `IGEGA` and `KIDAL` STARs.
- The following STARs have been amended and re-sequenced:
    - `BELEE 6B`, `BELEE 4F`: New transition `OSOLO`.
    - `MOLGI 7B`, `MOLGI 3F`, `MESIX 8B`: Segment MSAs only.

##### RWY 11

- The following STARs have been added:
    - `UPVES 1D`: Renamed from `BLUNT`. Added `OSOLO` transition.

##### RWY 29

- The following STARs have been added:
    - `UPVES 1G`: Renamed from `BLUNT`.
- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced:
    - `BELEE 7G`: New transition `OSOLO`. 

#### NZHT: Haast

- The following SID has been added: `KABUV 1`
- The following RNP has been added: `RNP A`

#### NZKM: Karamea

- The following SID has been added: `DALTU 1`
- The following RNP has been added: `RNP A`

#### NZMS: Masterton

- All SIDs have been removed, and replaced with: `OLNOL 1P`, `NIPIR 1Q`, `URDAL 1Q`.
- The following STARs have been added: `UGIPU 1A`, `OREUM 1A`.

#### NZNS: Nelson

- The following SIDs have been amended and re-sequenced: `ZULU 3`, `YANKEE 2`, `XRAY 3`.
    - Transition `PEAKS` replaced with `IPRAK`.

#### NZQN: Queenstown

- All STARs have been amended and re-sequenced by one.
    - `ELRUV` STARs: MSAs raised.
    - `UBDAM` and `SUNGU` STARs: Waypoint `GOSPA` replaced by `OLBUK`.

#### NZTG: Tauranga

- The following STARs have been amended and re-sequenced: `UBSET 4P`, `RUSTA 4R`.
    - Transition `NOBAR` renamed to `DODKU`.

#### NZWP: Whenuapai

- The following STARs have been amended and re-sequenced: `EXOPI 2K`, `EXOPI 3J`.
    - Waypoint `SELKA` replaced by `ELPAK`.

### Standard Routes

- The following STD RTEs have been amended and re-sequenced: `GSAA1`, `NRAA3`, `ROAA2`, `TGAA1`, `WNAA8`, `WNWP7`, `WKAA3`. 
- The following STD RTEs have been added: `CHGM1`, `MSCH1`, `MSWN1`.
- Routes updated in the Standard Route Tool.

#### vatSys Maps

For each aerodrome that has a set of STD RTEs, we have added a map layer depicting the route from the respective route entry waypoint. These can be enabled by enabling the `xxxx Standard Routes` map layer in `Maps > [ICAO Aerodrome Code]`.

Once adaptations are made to the export routines, these should become available for EuroScope users.

### Other Dataset Changes

- Radar type at NZQN changed from SMR to ADS-B. Controllers should now see ADS-B coupled ground tracks, as opposed to the orange SMR diamonds.
- Replaced the `Coast.xml` map layer. Added inland bodies of water, which should aid in Controller reference.
    - This also fixed a historical issue where the coastline around Lyttleton Harbour was missing some definition. 
- Fixed the ground map at NZNV. `A1` and `A2` are now in the correct locations.


