---
  title: Cycle 2408 (08 Aug)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

This cycle is a minor release, with a small number of changes. Most of these changes come from the renaming of waypoints, under direction from ICAO. 

## SOP Changes

No changes have been made this cycle.

-----

## Data Changes

### Aerodrome

#### NZCH: Christchurch

- The following STARs have been revised:
    - `BELEE 4E`: MSA revised between `VANDA` and `BELEE`

#### NZNS: Nelson

- The following waypoints have been renamed:
    - `QUAIL` is now `ENKIN`

- The following STARs have been amended and re-sequenced:
    - `LUBSI 3C`, `BISEB 3A`
  

- All RNP Approaches have been reviewed.
    - `RNP Y RWY 02`: IAF `QUAIL` replaced by `ENKIN`

#### NZQN: Queenstown

- The following waypoints have been renamed:
    - `BIKOS` is now `RIBDU`

##### RWY 05

- The following SIDs have been revised and re-sequenced: 
    - `IPNOR 5A`, `GIXEL 2`: `BIKOS` replaced by `RIBDU`

- The following approaches have been revised:
    - `RNP Z RWY 05 (AR)`: Updated minima

##### RWY 23

- The following SIDs have been revised and re-sequenced: 
    - `ANPOV 5B`, `IPNOR 5B`: Climb gradients reviewed 
    - `REDOL 3B`, `VALPI 3`

- The following approaches have been revised:
    - `RNP Z RWY 23 (AR)`: Updated minima

#### NZTG: Tauranga

- The follwing waypoints have been renamed:
    - `MEZZO` is now `UKMIT`

- The following STARs have been re-designated:
    - `OLDON 2A` redesignated to `OLDON 1D`. Waypoint `MEZZO` also replaced by `UKMIT`.

- The following STARs have been revised and re-sequenced:
    - `OROPI 2B`: Waypoint `SALOL` added to STAR.

#### NZFA: Te Hapua Heliport

- The following procedures have been created:
    - `KARNI 1P`: new RNP SID, terminates at `KABIL`

#### NZWN: Wellington

- The following waypoints have been renamed:
    - `RIDGE` is now `ATRAB`
  
##### RWY 16

- The following STARs have been revised and re-sequenced:
    - `TPAPA 3D`, `SIMZI 3D`, `AVPOD 3D`: now CAT `B`,`C`,`D`.
    - `WARDS 4D`: now CAT `B`,`C`,`D`. MSA between `PHNIX` and `DORBU` revised
- The following approaches have been revised:
    - `RNP X RWY 16 (AR)`: Waypoint `RIDGE` replaced by `ATRAB`

##### RWY 34

- The following STARs have been revised and re-sequenced:
    - `SIMZI 8A`: Track and MSA between `KRAKA` and `MEEDA` revised
    - `TPAPA 5A`: Track between `BRUDA` and `PEGPU` revised
    - `TPAPA 3C`, `SIMZI 4C`, `SULRI 4C`, `WARDS 4C`: now CAT `B`,`C`,`D`. MSA between `KRAKA` and `MEEDA` revised.


-----

### Standard Routes

No changes have been made this cycle.

### Other Dataset Changes

No changes have been made this cycle.

