---
  title: Cycle 2412 (28 Nov)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

Cycle 12 is always a major update for NZZC, with this year being no different. Cycle 2412 implements Auckland DMAPS, ensuring further separation between departures and missed approach paths. There are also a plethora of changes to IFR waypoints.

## SOP Changes

### TBC (Pending Mikey's Changes)

-----

## Data Changes

- The following major waypoints have been disestablished, and replaced:
    - `LAKES` replaced by `ORIDI`
    - `KARRL` replaced by `IGBAT`
    - `GOOSE` replaced by `IDGIV`

### Aerodrome

#### NZAA: Auckland

There are significant changes to Auckland, with the implementation of the DMAPS, resulting in procedure and airspace changes. Additionally, the CTR/C boundary has been amended, and Visual Reporting Points replaced.

- The lateral bounds of the Auckland CTR/C have been amended:
    - North Sector now split into three subsectors: `North West`, `North` and `North East`.
    - South Sector now split into two subsectors: `South West` and `South East`.
    - Additional pieces of CTA/C airspace added.
- All VRPs within the NZAA CTA/C have been removed, and new ones added.
- `MANGERE BRIDGE` VFR arrival and departure has been replaced with the `AMBURY` arrival and departure.

##### RWY 05R

- The following SIDs have been amended and re-sequenced: `POLIS 3Q`, `BROOK 4Q`, `REKIS 5Q`, `BATOS 4Q`.
    - Transitions renamed. 
    - `REKIS 5Q`: Initial departure routing slightly changed.
- The following SIDs have been renamed:
    - `PAGLA 1Q` becomes the `AVNAR 1Q`: All waypoints renamed.
    - `DOVON 1Q` becomes the `IDUGU 1Q`: `AVDAT 2Q` consolidated into this single procedure.
- The following SIDs have been removed: `AVDAT 2Q`.
- The following RNP has been amended: `RNP X RWY 05R (AR)`
    - Final arcing turn slightly amended. Missed approach path amended.

##### RWY 23L

- The following STARs have been amended and re-sequenced: `DAVEE 4E`, `PEPPE 2E`, `DODKU 2E`.
- The following SIDs have been amended and re-sequenced: `LENGU 5P`, `OSRAP 2P`, `STEAL 3P`, `LEVRA 2P`. 
    - Transitions renamed.
- The following SIDs have been renamed:
    - `ELSAB 2P` becomes the `ONODA 1P`: Initial departure routing slightly changed. `PUHOI` transition added.
- The following RNP has been amended: `RNP X RWY 23L (AR)`
    - Final arcing turn slightly amended. Missed approach path amended.

#### NZCH: Christchurch

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: All `BELEE` STARs, `UPVES 2D`.
    - WPT `BELEE` altitude restrictions removed.

#### NZHN: Hamilton

- Hamilton Delivery position (HN_DEL) has been removed.
- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `YOGIT 3B`, `YOGIT 3D`.
    - `LAKES` transition replaced by `ORIDI`.
- The following STAR has been renamed: `LAKES 3C` becomes the `ORIDI 1C`.
- VFR procedures added.

#### NZHK: Hokitika

- The following SIDs have been added: `DOPAX 1R`, `OSOLO 1R`, `DOPAX 1S`, `OSOLO 1S`.

#### NZKK: Kerikeri

- The following STARs have been added: `SAKIM 1A`, `URGAR 1A`, `DUKEG 1B`, `URGAR 1B`, `SAKIM 1B`.
- The following SIDs have been added: `UPGAM 1P`, `OBKOP 1P`, `UPGAM 1Q`, `OBKOP 1R`, `OBKOP 1Q`.
- The following SIDs have been removed: `UKAPA 2A`, `UKAPA 1B`.
- The following RNPs have been amended: `RNP RWY 15`, `RNP RWY 33`.
    - All waypoints replaced. RNP is now a T-bar, with three IAFs.

#### NZNR: Napier

- CTR/D now separated into three sectors: `West`, `Instrument` and `East`.
- VFR procedures added.

#### NZNP: New Plymouth

- The following SID has been amended: `NP 1`.
    - WPT `KARRL` replaced by `IGBAT`.
    - Procedure not resequenced.

#### NZWN: Wellington

- `South East` sector renamed `Turakirae`.

#### NZWP: Whenuapai 

- The following SID has been amended and resequenced: `BAYES 2R`.
    - `LAKES` transition replaced by `ORIDI`.
- The following SIDs have been added: `NZWP 1A`, `NZWP 1B`.

#### NZWB: Woodbourne

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `VINES 5`, `VALLEY 4`.
    - `VINES 5` departure routing amended.
- The following SIDs have been added: `BEAVER 1`.

-----

### Standard Routes

- The following STD RTEs have been amended and resequenced: `AANP2`, `AAPM3`, `AAPP1`, `AAWN2`, `CHWN7`, `WRWN1`, `WPOH1`, `WPWN2`.
- The following STD RTEs have been added: `ARHN1`
- All Dunedin STD RTEs have had their remarks amended to clarify the `FL260` or higher requirement, with the `FL250` hold-down now reflected in DN TWR SOPs.
- Further standardised remark values.
- Routes have been updated in the Standard Route Tool and [public route repository](https://github.com/vatnz-dev/std-rte-public){ target=blank }.

### VRPs for LittleNavMap

The VRPs for LittleNavMap package has been updated, and [may be downloaded here](https://github.com/vatnz-dev/vrpsForLittleNavMap/releases/tag/2412){ target=blank }.

### Other Dataset Changes

- The vatSys profile has been renamed `VATNZ Domestic (NZZC)` to align with the Combined Oceanic dataset.

