---
  title: Cycle 2502 (20 Feb)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

## Data Changes

- The following major waypoints have been disestablished, and replaced:
    - `TAYLA` replaced by `DULUV`
    - `JAMIE` replaced by `EXOTA`

### Aerodrome

#### NZAA: Auckland

- Taxiway `D3` is now closed
- The following STARs have been added: `ARADI 1N`

##### RWY 05R

- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP X RWY 05R (AR)`
    - New waypoints added to make slight amendments to Final arcing turn.

##### RWY 23L

- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP S RWY 23L (AR)`, `RNP U RWY 23L (AR)`, `RNP V RWY 23L (AR)`, `RNP X 23L (AR)`, `RNP Y 23L (AR)`
    - New waypoints added to make slight amendments to Final arcing turn.

#### NZAR: Ardmore

- The following STARs have been amended and re-sequenced: `MOPVU 2G`
    - MSA adjusted between `MOPVU` and `FIRTH`.

#### NZDN: Dunedin

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `MIPAK 5A`, `MIPAK 2C`, `MIPAK 3B`
    - `IPKUG` crossing altitude changed.

#### NZHN: Hamilton

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `ATPUL 2A`, `YOGIT 3A`, `ATPUL 4C`, `OLDON 4A`, `KICKE 3A`, `BUDEN 3A`, `YOGIT 4B`, `YOGIT 4D`
    - WPT `TAYLA` replaced by `DULUV`.
- The following SIDs have been renamed: `DULUV 1V` becomes the `TAYLA 3V`

##### RWY 18L

- CAT A/B `VOR/DME RWY 18L` approach now `VOR/DME Z RWY 18L`
- CAT C/D `VOR/DME RWY 18L` approach now `VOR/DME Y RWY 18L`
- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP Y RWY 18L`
    - IAF/IF WPT `TAYLA` replaced by `DULUV`.

##### RWY 36R

- CAT A/B `VOR/DME RWY 36R` approach now `VOR/DME Z RWY 36R`
- CAT C/D `VOR/DME RWY 36R` approach now `VOR/DME Y RWY 36R`
- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP Z RWY 36R`, `RNP Y RWY 36R`
    - Missed Approach WPT `TAYLA` replaced by `DULUV`.

#### NZPN: Picton

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `SEDSI 3R`
    - MAGVAR update.

#### NZQN: Queenstown

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `ELRUV 4A`, `UBDAM 6B`, `SUNGU 6B`
    - Various ATC restrictions removed.
- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `ANPOV 5A`, `IPNOR 6A`, `DOVMA 4A`, `GIXEL 3`, `ANPOV 6B`, `IPNOR 6B`
    - Various ATC restrictions removed.

#### NZRO: Rotorua

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `TOTRA 5P`, `ORAKA 4P`
    - New waypoint `RO411` added.

#### NZTU: Timaru

- The following SIDs have been removed: `MUKEN 2Q`
- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `ELDAK 2T`
    - SID now used for both `RWY 02` and `RWY 20`.
  
#### NZWB: Woodbourne

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `AVPOD 2K`, `SUPEN 3K`, `IGMUL 2K`, `EXOTA 1K`, `AVPOD 2M`, `SUPEN 3M`, `IGMUL 2M`, `EXOTA 1M`, `AVPOD 2J`, `SUPEN 3J`, `IGMUL 2J`, `EXOTA 1J`
    - MAGVAR update.
    - WPT `JAMIE` replaced by `EXOTA`.
- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `SEDSI 3Q`, `LUBSI 2Q`, `DOTUT 3Q`, `SEDSI 3P`, `BODIM 3P`
    - MAGVAR update.

##### RWY 24

- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP RWY 24`
    - Missed Approach WPT `JAMIE` replaced by `EXOTA`.

#### NZWR: Whangarei

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `SF 2P`, `SF 2Q`
    - Altitude restriction and turn instruction changes.

-----

### Standard Routes

- The following STD RTEs have been added: `WNMS1`
- All Dunedin STD RTEs have had their remarks amended to remove the standard route clearance restriction of `FL260`+.
- Routes have been updated in the Standard Route Tool and [public route repository](https://github.com/vatnz-dev/std-rte-public){ target=blank }.

