---
  title: Cycle 2504 (17 Apr)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

A minor release this cycle, with some smaller changes to some aerodrome procedures. 

## SOP Changes

### Content

The following content has been added:

- Multiple ATIS Connection Information

----

## Data Changes

- The following ICAO waypoints have been established:
    - `DAKSO` (NZNR)

### Aerodrome

#### NZHK: Hokitika

##### RWY 03

- The following SIDs have been established: `RILEY 1R`

##### RWY 21

- The following SIDs have been established: `RILEY 1S`


#### NZKK: Kerikeri

##### RWY 33

- The following SIDs have been amended: 
    - `UPGAM 1Q` becomes the `UPGAM 2Q`, `OBKOP 1Q` becomes the `OBKOP 2Q`
        - Maintain RWY centreline ALT increased on both procedures.


#### NZKT: Kaitaia

##### RWY 12

- The following SIDs have been reviewed and updated: 
    - `BROADWOOD 3A` becomes the `BROADWOOD 4A`, `BROADWOOD 2B` becomes the `BROADWOOD 3B`, `HOBBS 3` becomes the `HOBBS 4`, `VALLEY 2` becomes the `VALLEY 3`.
        - MNM ALT to maintain RWY CL removed for procedures above.

##### RWY 30

- The following SIDs have been reviewed and updated: 
    - `HARBOUR 3` becomes the `HARBOUR 4`.
        - MNM ALT to maintain RWY CL removed for procedure above.


#### NZNR: Napier

##### RWY 16

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: 
    - `BITIL 1A` becomes the `BITIL 2A`
        - Waypoint `DAKSO` inserted after `BITIL`


#### NZNE: North Shore

- Grass RWY 09/27 has been removed


#### NZOH: Ohakea

- Grass RWY 09/27 has been removed


#### NZWB: Woodbourne

##### RWY 06

- The following STARs have been disetablished:
    - `AVPOD 2K`, `SUPEN 3K`, `IGMUL 2K`, `EXOTA 1K`


#### NZWP: Whenuapai

##### RWY 03

- The following STARs have been reviewed and amended:
    - `BASIV 2K` becomes the `BASIV 3K`, `OMLEN 1K` becomes the `OMLEN 2K`, `ARADI 2K` becomes the `ARADI 3K`, `EXOPI 2K` becomes the `EXOPI 3K`, `AA 1K` becomes the `AA 2K`.
        - Minor track changes and `WYTAK` hold added.

##### RWY 21

- The following STARs have been reviewed and amended:
    - `ARADI 1J` becomes the `ARADI 2J`.
        - Minor track changes and `BAYES` hold added.

    - `BASIV 2J` becomes the `BASIV 3J`.
        - Minor track changes, MSA updated and `BAYES` hold added.

    - `EXOPI 3J` becomes the `EXOPI 4J`.
        - MSA updated and `BAYES` hold added.

    - `AA 1J` becomes the `AA 2J`.
        - MSA updated and `BAYES` hold added.

### Standard Routes

No changes have been made this cycle.

### Other Dataset Changes

- NZDN Tower bounds have been redrawn to include airspace previously omitted in our map layer by mistake.