---
  title: Cycle 2506 (12 Jun)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

A relativley large release this cycle, with changes to a number of aerodrome procedures. IFR Procedures have been introduced in Ruatoria (NZRR).

## SOP Changes

### Content

The following content has been added:

- Chritchurch AD Special Conditions

----

## Data Changes

- The following ICAO waypoints have been established:
    - `OVMIL`, `ELGAV`, `OMBAL`, `UKALI`

- The following Navaids have been disestablished:
    - `KK NDB/DME` 

- The following airspace has been amended:
    - `NZD621` disestablished and replaced by `NZM602`

### Aerodrome

#### NZDN: Dunedin

##### RWY 03

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `BIDEL 4P`, `BIDEL 3R`, `BASOS 4P`, `AKPIN 5P`
    - `BIDEL 4P`: Waypoint `DOTVA` removed from sequence between `NOMUG` and `BIDEL`.
    - `BIDEL 3R`: Waypoints `RULOL`, `LUTSA` removed and replaced by `KAMVU`.
    - `BASOS 4P`: Waypoint `MOXET` becomes `MESOG`, applies to `ADKOS` transition only.
    - `AKPIN 5P`: MSA adjusted.
        - Above procedures: Waypoint `DUKES` becomes `GUTED`.

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `MIPAK 3C`, `MIPAK 6A`, `DABCA 3A`, `EPDAB 3A`, `BASOS 5A`
    - `BASOS 5A`: Waypoint `MOXET` becomes `MESOG`, applies to `ADKOS` transition only.

- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP RWY 03`
    - Missed approach waypoint `DUKES` becomes `GUTED`

##### RWY 21

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `BIDEL 4Q`, `BIDEL 5S`, `BASOS 3Q`, `AKPIN 3Q`, `ALBOX 3Q`
    - `BIDEL 4Q`: Major resequence, `NOMUG`, `DOTVA` removed.
    - `BIDEL 5S`: Major resequence, `RULOL`, `LUTSA` removed and replaced by `KAMVU`.
    - `BASOS 3Q`: Waypoint `MOXET` becomes `MESOG`, applies to `ADKOS` transition only.
    - `AKPIN 3Q`, `ALBOX 3Q`: Tracks and MSA adjusted.

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `MIPAK 4B`, `EPDAB 3B`, `DABCA 3B`, `BASOS 4B`, `AKLAR 3B`
    - Minor track adjustments.

- The following RNP approaches have been amended: `RNP RWY 21`
    - MSA reviewed and updated

#### NZKK: Kerikeri

- The Kerikeri NDB/DME, `KK NDB/DME`, has been removed.
    - NDB approaches and conventional NDB-based SIDs have been removed.

##### RWY 15

- The following SIDs have been established: `OVMIL 1P`, `KAROA 1P`

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `SAKIM 2A`
    - `KK NDB` replaced by `OMBAL`.

##### RWY 33

- The following SIDs have been established: `OVMIL 1Q`, `KAROA 1R`


#### NZOH: Ohakea

- The following SIDs have been established: `RIMLU 1T`, `IGBUD 1T`
    - Tracking North via `RIMLU` and Tracking South via `IGBUD`


#### NZPM: Palmerston North

- The following STARs have been amended and resequenced: `TUTSI 3B`
    - ATC altitude restriction added at `LEKED`

#### NZRR: Ruatoria

IFR Procedures introduced at Ruatoria.

- The following SIDs have been established: `OLRES 1`
    - Transitions via `BODEM` (NE) and `IDPIN` (SE)

### Standard Routes

- The following Standard Routes have been amended and resequenced: `AAKK2`, `AAWR1`, `KKAA3`

- Routes have been updated in the Standard Route Tool and [public route repository](https://github.com/vatnz-dev/std-rte-public){ target=blank }.

### Other Dataset Changes

#### NZAA: Auckland

- `BASIV 5E` arrival has been amended to remove the transition at `PEBLU` and to correctly include the transition at `SALAG`

#### NZWB: Woodbourne

- `NZWB 1A` > `NZWB 2A` radar departure. This procedure had changed a few cycles ago, but was not noticed until production of 2506 had begun.