---
  title: Cycle 2604 (16 Apr)
---

--8<-- "includes/abbreviations.md"

## Data Changes

No significant changes.

## Controller Changes

- New VATNZ Plugin included with vatSys profile. Currently this provides the ability for automatic sector extensions to be loaded into Controller Info for display on VATSIM Radar. See the [vatSys client guide](../../controller-skills/client-guides/vatSys-setup.md) for more information

## Aerodrome

### NZGS: Gore

#### RWY 14

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `MIGEN2Q`

#### RWY 32

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `COOKS2P`

### NZHN: Hamilton

#### RWY 18L

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `BUDEN5V`

### NZHS: Hastings

#### RWY 01

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `TUKNE2U`
    - Procedure reviewed; minor track change.

#### RWY 19

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `TUKNE2T`
    - Procedure reviewed; minor track change.

### NZKT: Kaitaia

#### RWY 12

- The following SIDs have been added: `KAROA1P`, `RUATO1P`, `PERAS1P`.
- The following STARs have been added: `PERAS1B`, `RUATO1B`, `KAROA1B`.
- The following STAR has been disestablished: `KAITAIA1`.
- The following RNP procedures have been reviewed and completely reworked: `RNP 12`.

#### RWY 30

- The following SIDs have been added: `KAROA1Q`, `RUATO1Q`, `PERAS1Q`, `HOBIN1Q`.
- The following STARs have been added: `PERAS1A`, `RUATO1A`, `KAROA1A`, `ENSOP1A`.
- The following STARs have been disestablished: `KAROA1`, `RUATO1`, `PERAS1`.
- The following RNP procedures have been reviewed and completely reworked: `RNP 30`.

### NZNR: Napier

#### RWY 16

- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `HILL2`, `COAST2`, `LEDIV4P`, `TUKNE2P`, `TUKNE2R`.
    - Max IAS turn requirements applied.
    - `TUKNE2P` and `TUKNE2R`: minor track changes.
- The following SID has been added: `SUPVI1P`.

#### RWY 34

- The following SIDs have been added: `GUGTO1S`, `OLSIX1Q`.
- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `WEST2`, `OCEAN2`, `OBLOX4Q`, `GUGTO2Q`.
    - Max IAS turn requirements applied.

### NZPM: Palmerston North

#### RWY 25

- The following SID has been amended and resequenced: `FOXRT5`
    - ATC instruction changes.
- The following STAR has been amended and resequenced: `LUNBA2E`.
    - New waypoint `OTLAG` added.
- The following STAR has been amended and resequenced: `TUTSI3E`.
    - Procedure reviewed; minor track change.

#### RWY 07

- The following SID has been amended and resequenced: `CHARLI9`
    - ATC instruction changes.
- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `DADLI4Q`, `DADLI5S`, `DADLI5T`.
    - ATC instruction changes.

### NZTG: Tauranga

- New ground position `NZTG_GND` operating on frequency `123.4`

### NZWR: Whangarei

#### RWY 06

- The following SIDs have been added: `BUVDO1S`, `UPGAM1S`.
- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `BREAM6`, `WAIPU4`.
    - Procedure reviewed.
- The following STARs have been added: `BILEL1B`, `EPDUN1B`.
- The following RNP procedures have been added: `RNP Y 06`, `RNP Z 06`.

#### RWY 24

- The following SIDs have been added: `BUVDO1T`, `UPGAM1T`.
- The following SIDs have been amended and resequenced: `HARBOUR6`, `PORTLAND4`.
    - Procedures reviewed.
- The following STARs have been added: `BILEL1A`, `EPDUN1A`.

#### Other RNP Procedures

- The following RNP procedure has been reviewed: `RNP C`.
- The following RNP procedure has been replaced: `RNP D`.
- The following RNP procedure has been disestablished: `RNP 06`.

## Standard Routes

No change.

## Other Dataset Changes

### NZCH: Christchurch

- `BELEE2J` arrival as been updated to `BELEE3J` due to being missed from AIRAC 2512

### NZRO: Rotorua

- `REEVE1A` arrival has been removed due to being missed from a previous AIRAC
