---
  title: Cycle 2202 (24 Feb)
---

## Revision A

### ANR Updates

- Addition of the `GOBIN`, `IGOBA` `OMGOV` IFR waypoints.
- Removal of the `DAKUR`, `LUKLO` and `NUBKA` IFR waypoints.
- Addition of Hamilton Delivery, with frequency 122.900.


**Rotorua**:
  - Some STARs have been renumbered.
  - Some approach waypoints that have previously been procedural waypoints, have been replaced by IFR waypoints. 

**Christchurch**:
  - Some waypoints on the GNSS approaches have been replaced. There are no changes to the route the approach takes.

- Amendment to the VFR East arrivals at NZHN.

### Dataset Updates

- **fix**: Slight change in how we notate and program procedures within the SFG app. This has caused:
  - Approaches to be re-labelled `RNP` and `RNP-AR`, instead of `GNSS` and `RNP`.
  - Threshold fixes for SIDs and Approaches are now handled automatically by the SFG.
- **feat**: Heliports have been added to the dataset.
- **fix**: Duplicate co-ordinates from Airspace definitions have been removed.
- **feat**: SFG now has support for drawing multiple Enroute holds at a single IFR significant point.
- **feat**: Dataset now contains all Pacific Ocean position definitions for liaision, in preparation for the Combined Oceanic Dataset.
- **feat**: Addition of NZNS_DEL on 123.3.

### Position Changes

Some minor changes to Hamilton positions this cycle. NZHN-R_TWR has been removed, as it has only every been staffed six times. This has allowed for the reallocation of 126.8 as NZHN_TWR's new primary frequency. 

Hamilton also gains a Delivery frequency this cycle, with a frequency of 122.900, which was previously assigned to NZHN_TWR. This delivery station is a Secondary position - so can be staffed only if Hamilton Tower is online, much the same as NZHN_APP.

Nelson Delivery has also been added to the network. This works in much the same way as Hamilton Delivery, and can only be staffed if Nelson Tower is online.

### Other changes

There have been some significant changes to the Sector File Generator tool this past month or so, enabling some neat data to come through in the next couple of cycles. 

## Revision B

This revision fixes some Auckland SID resequencing that was missed in Revision A. 