---
  title: Cycle 2212 (01 Dec)
---

## Revision A

This cycle is a major release for the Dataset, with the removal and replacement of all Wellington SIDs due to the real-world DMAPS project. This has also amended a fair amount of STARs for NZWN, as well as changing some surrounding airspace due to containment requirements.

### ANR Update

**Visual Reporting Points (VRPs)**

  - The following VRPs have been established:  Wainui Shed, Red Horn, Sadler Point, Gulf Harbour Marina, Albany Stadium, Cow Sheds, Mackenzie Pass, Glendhu Bay, Cardrona Pines, Queensberry Ponds, Albert Town Bridge and Mou Waho.
  - The following VRPs have been disestablished: Matukituki River Mouth and Queensberry.
  - These have been updated in the VRPs for LittleNavMap release, and [can be downloaded here](https://github.com/vatnz-dev/vrpsForLittleNavMap/releases).

**Standard Route Clearances**

  - The following Standard Routes have been updated: `TUCH1`, `TUWN2`, `WNAA5`, `WNCH4`, `WNDN7`, `WNNV4`, `WNQN3`, `WNQN4`, `WNTU2`, `WNWR2`, `WNWP3`. 
  - These have been updated in the Standard Route tool, and will update next time you launch the vatSys plugin, or standalone application.

**Auckland**

  - Auckland CTA/C NZA247 replaced by NZA246.
  - Auckland CTA/D NZA231 replaced by NZA232.

**Paraparaumu**

  - The following STARs have been resquenced due to changes in level restrictions: `AGAXA 4`, `GUGAK 5`.
  - The following STARs have been added: `IPKEP 1H`, `IPKEP 1G`.

**Wellington**

  - Wellington CTR/C NZA654 replaced by NZA652.
  - Wellington CTA/C NZA633, NZA634, and NZA638 boundaries amended. 
  - Wellington CTA/C airspace NZA643 established.
  - Removal of all existing SIDs, and the replacement with the following: `AGROR 1Q`, `ATVEV 1Q`, `IDVAL 1Q`, `IDVAL 1U`, `UPROG 1Q`, `UPLUD 1P`, `UPLUD 1R`, `IPKEP 1P`, `IPKEP 1T`, `URGEV 1P`, `NZWN 1C/D`.
  - All STARs have been amended with additional waypoints and level restrictions, and have all been resequenced by one.
  - The original POLAX and DOGBI departures have been added to the dataset as `CTDPOL` and `CTDDOG`, to be used as a fallback for CTD 2022.

**Other Changes**

  - MOAs NZM301 and NZM304 boundaries amended.
  - A tonne of new ATS routes, reviews and deletions.

## Revision B

### Changes

  - Accidentally mixed the `UPROG 1Q` with the `AGROR 1Q`. This change separates these two procedures out.
  - Fixed a small error in the `IDVAL 1Q`.


## Revision C

### Changes

A silent release to amend some Wellington STARs.

## Revision D

### Changes 

  - Removal of the `POLAX` and `DOGBI` departures that were retained for CTD. This also removes the special map layers.